packages/rsbuild-plugin-wiggum/README.md, before:

# @wiggum/rsbuild-plugin-wiggum

An Rsbuild plugin that injects a floating chat widget into your dev app. It connects to an OpenCode server to provide an in‑app AI assistant during development.

- Starts a local OpenCode server for you during `rsbuild dev` (or use your own via `apiEndpoint`)
- Proxies requests to avoid CORS friction
- Customizable widget (title, position, colors)

## Install

```bash
pnpm add -D @wiggum/rsbuild-plugin-wiggum
```

## Usage

Add the plugin to your Rsbuild config:

```ts
// rsbuild.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from '@rsbuild/core';
import { pluginChatWidget } from '@wiggum/rsbuild-plugin-wiggum';

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    pluginChatWidget({
      title: 'Wiggum Assistant',
      position: 'bottom-right',
      autoOpen: false,
    })
  ],
});
```

Run your dev server and look for the chat bubble:

```bash
wiggum build dev --open
# or
rsbuild dev --open
```

## Options

```ts
interface ChatWidgetOptions {
  // Widget UI
  title?: string;
  position?: 'bottom-right' | 'bottom-left' | 'top-right' | 'top-left';
  primaryColor?: string;
  secondaryColor?: string;
  backgroundColor?: string;
  textColor?: string;

  // Server
  apiEndpoint?: string; // if provided, plugin will not spawn OpenCode; uses this URL directly

  // Behavior
  autoOpen?: boolean;
  showTypingIndicator?: boolean;
  enableFileUpload?: boolean;
  maxMessages?: number;

  // Advanced styling
  customCSS?: string;
  customTheme?: Record<string, string>;
}
```

Notes:
- When `apiEndpoint` is omitted, the plugin builds a merged OpenCode config using `@wiggum/agent`, spawns an ephemeral local server, and proxies it at `/__opencode__` during dev.
- In production builds the plugin only injects the widget asset; you should provide your own service endpoint if you want a live chat experience.

## Browser API

When loaded, the widget exposes a small API on `window.WiggumChatWidget`:

```ts
window.WiggumChatWidget?.init(config?);
window.WiggumChatWidget?.open();
window.WiggumChatWidget?.close();
window.WiggumChatWidget?.isOpen(); // boolean
window.WiggumChatWidget?.destroy();
```

- `open()` and `close()` toggle the current widget UI state.
- `isOpen()` reports whether the chat panel is currently expanded in the DOM.
- `init()` is idempotent; repeated calls do not create duplicate widgets.

## Demo

See `packages/demo-app` for a working example using this plugin together with `@wiggum/cli`.

## Requirements

- Node.js 18+
- Rsbuild 1.4+

## License

MIT

Commit message:

docs(plugin): note open auto-init behavior in browser API
Co-authored-by: Zack Jackson <ScriptedAlchemy@users.noreply.github.com>

packages/rsbuild-plugin-wiggum/README.md, after:

# @wiggum/rsbuild-plugin-wiggum

An Rsbuild plugin that injects a floating chat widget into your dev app. It connects to an OpenCode server to provide an in‑app AI assistant during development.

- Starts a local OpenCode server for you during `rsbuild dev` (or use your own via `apiEndpoint`)
- Proxies requests to avoid CORS friction
- Customizable widget (title, position, colors)

## Install

```bash
pnpm add -D @wiggum/rsbuild-plugin-wiggum
```

## Usage

Add the plugin to your Rsbuild config:

```ts
// rsbuild.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from '@rsbuild/core';
import { pluginChatWidget } from '@wiggum/rsbuild-plugin-wiggum';

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    pluginChatWidget({
      title: 'Wiggum Assistant',
      position: 'bottom-right',
      autoOpen: false,
    })
  ],
});
```

Run your dev server and look for the chat bubble:

```bash
wiggum build dev --open
# or
rsbuild dev --open
```

## Options

```ts
interface ChatWidgetOptions {
  // Widget UI
  title?: string;
  position?: 'bottom-right' | 'bottom-left' | 'top-right' | 'top-left';
  primaryColor?: string;
  secondaryColor?: string;
  backgroundColor?: string;
  textColor?: string;

  // Server
  apiEndpoint?: string; // if provided, plugin will not spawn OpenCode; uses this URL directly

  // Behavior
  autoOpen?: boolean;
  showTypingIndicator?: boolean;
  enableFileUpload?: boolean;
  maxMessages?: number;

  // Advanced styling
  customCSS?: string;
  customTheme?: Record<string, string>;
}
```

Notes:
- When `apiEndpoint` is omitted, the plugin builds a merged OpenCode config using `@wiggum/agent`, spawns an ephemeral local server, and proxies it at `/__opencode__` during dev.
- In production builds the plugin only injects the widget asset; you should provide your own service endpoint if you want a live chat experience.

## Browser API

When loaded, the widget exposes a small API on `window.WiggumChatWidget`:

```ts
window.WiggumChatWidget?.init(config?);
window.WiggumChatWidget?.open();
window.WiggumChatWidget?.close();
window.WiggumChatWidget?.isOpen(); // boolean
window.WiggumChatWidget?.destroy();
```

- `open()` and `close()` toggle the current widget UI state.
- `open()` also auto-initializes the widget if it has not mounted yet.
- `isOpen()` reports whether the chat panel is currently expanded in the DOM.
- `init()` is idempotent; repeated calls do not create duplicate widgets.

## Demo

See `packages/demo-app` for a working example using this plugin together with `@wiggum/cli`.

## Requirements

- Node.js 18+
- Rsbuild 1.4+

## License

MIT
